document consistent configs (#25847)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/_index.md

type: multi-code-lang
---

> Please find below a set of consistent configurations across all SDKs. For additional information about configuration options for specific language SDKs, choose your language:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes configuration options that are supported across all SDKs. To view these common configuration options, see [Common configuration options](#common-configuration-options).

For configuration options specific to your programming language, choose your SDK from the options below:
```

{{< partial name="apm/apm-compatibility.html" >}}

<br>

To instrument an application written in a language that does not yet have official library support, see the list of [community tracing libraries][1].

> ## General SDK configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Common configuration options
```

> Datadog SDKs support the following general SDK configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration options are supported across all Datadog SDKs:
```

**Supported Values**: A regex string <br>
**Description**: Applies a regex to redact sensitive data from query strings on incoming HTTP requests. Matches are replaced with `<redacted>`. If an empty string is passed, no obfuscation occurs. The resulting value is reported in the `http.url` tag. 

### Diagnostics

`DD_TRACE_LOG_DIRECTORY`
: **Default**: Varies by SDK, environment, and runtime <br>
**Supported Values**: A valid directory path that exists on the system <br>

> **Not Supported In**: Node.js SDK<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Not Supported In**: Node.js, Ruby, Python SDKs<br>
```

> **Not Supported In**: Node.js SDK<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Not Supported In**: Java, Node.js, Ruby, Python SDKs<br>
```

**Description**: Specifies the directory where tracer log files should be routed. If the directory does not exist, the SDK should log a warning and behave as if the environment variable was not set.

### Agent

`DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL`
: **Default**: `http://localhost:8126` <br>

> **Supported Values**: A string representing a host name <br>

Author: Yes, I overlooked this

**Description**: The URL to use to connect to the Datadog agent for traces. Valid URL schemas include `http://` and `unix://` (Unix Domain Sockets). This value takes precedence over `DD_AGENT_HOST` and `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT` if set.

### Unified Service Tagging

`DD_VERSION`
: **Default**: `null` <br>

> **Supported Values**: A string representing an application version <br>

Author: I believe it doesn't have to be

type: multi-code-lang
---

This page describes configuration options that are supported across all SDKs. To view these common configuration options, see [Common configuration options](#common-configuration-options).

For configuration options specific to your programming language, choose your SDK from the options below:

{{< partial name="apm/apm-compatibility.html" >}}

<br>

To instrument an application written in a language that does not yet have official library support, see the list of [community tracing libraries][1].

## Common configuration options

> The following configuration options are supported across all Datadog SDKs:

Reviewer 4: Can we change the wording of "supported" to something else? Here it says "supported across all Datadog SDKs" then later some items have "Not Supported In". I understand that the intent is 1) these are implemented across multiple Datadog SDKs and 2) where implemented, the behavior is consistent, so we need to phrase that in a concise way 😆

Reviewer 4: We could also let the docs team chime in on this, maybe they will have a good way of phrasing this

Reviewer: How about something like this?
> The following configuration options behave consistently across multiple Datadog SDKs:

### Traces

`DD_TRACE_<INTEGRATION>_ENABLED`
: **Default**: `true` <br>
**Supported Values**: Boolean <br>
**Not Supported In**: Go SDK<br>

> **Description**: Enable or disable instrumentation for the specified `<INTEGRATION>`.

Reviewer 4: I think we should also specify that the integration name is uppercase. Perhaps giving an example will also help

> **Description**: Enable or disable instrumentation for the specified `<INTEGRATION>`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Description**: Enables or disables instrumentation for the specified `<INTEGRATION>`.
```

`DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT`
: **Default**: `100` <br>
**Supported Values**: A positive integer
**Description**: Sets the maximum number of traces to sample per second; applies only when either `DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES` or `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` is set.

`DD_TRACE_HEADER_TAGS`
: **Default**: `null` <br>
**Supported Values**: A comma-separated string representing a list of case-insensitive HTTP headers, with an optional mapping to a custom tag name. Example: `User-Agent:my-user-agent,Content-Type`. <br>
**Description**: Automatically apply specified HTTP headers as span tags. If a custom tag name is not specified, the tag key defaults to `http.request.headers.<normalized-header-name>` for request headers and `http.response.headers.<normalized-header-name>` for response headers.

`DD_TRACE_ENABLED`
: **Default**: `true` <br>
**Supported Values**: Boolean <br>

> **Description**: Enable or disable the sending of traces to the trace agent.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Description**: Enables or disables the sending of traces to the trace agent.
```

`DD_TRACE_OBFUSCATION_QUERY_STRING_REGEXP`

> : **Default**: `(?i)(?:(?:"|%22)?)(?:(?:old[-_]?|new[-_]?)?p(?:ass)?w(?:or)?d(?:1|2)?|pass(?:[-_]?phrase)?|secret|(?:api[-_]?|private[-_]?|public[-_]?|access[-_]?|secret[-_]?|app(?:lication)?[-_]?)key(?:[-_]?id)?|token|consumer[-_]?(?:id|key|secret)|sign(?:ed|ature)?|auth(?:entication|orization)?)(?:(?:\s|%20)*(?:=|%3D)[^&]+|(?:"|%22)(?:\s|%20)*(?::|%3A)(?:\s|%20)*(?:"|%22)(?:%2[^2]|%[^2]|[^"%])+(?:"|%22))|(?:bearer(?:\s|%20)+[a-z0-9._\-]+|token(?::|%3A)[a-z0-9]{13}|gh[opsu]_[0-9a-zA-Z]{36}|ey[I-L](?:[\w=-]|%3D)+\.ey[I-L](?:[\w=-]|%3D)+(?:\.(?:[\w.+/=-]|%3D|%2F|%2B)+)?|-{5}BEGIN(?:[a-z\s]|%20)+PRIVATE(?:\s|%20)KEY-{5}[^\-]+-{5}END(?:[a-z\s]|%20)+PRIVATE(?:\s|%20)KEY(?:-{5})?(?:\n|%0A)?|(?:ssh-(?:rsa|dss)|ecdsa-[a-z0-9]+-[a-z0-9]+)(?:\s|%20|%09)+(?:[a-z0-9/.+]|%2F|%5C|%2B){100,}(?:=|%3D)*(?:(?:\s|%20|%09)+[a-z0-9._-]+)?)` <br>

Reviewer 4: I suggest following the PHP example and putting this in a code block that can scroll horizontally like so:

````suggestion
: **Default**:
```
(?i)(?:(?:"|%22)?)(?:(?:old[-_]?|new[-_]?)?p(?:ass)?w(?:or)?d(?:1|2)?|pass(?:[-_]?phrase)?|secret|(?:api[-_]?|private[-_]?|public[-_]?|access[-_]?|secret[-_]?|app(?:lication)?[-_]?)key(?:[-_]?id)?|token|consumer[-_]?(?:id|key|secret)|sign(?:ed|ature)?|auth(?:entication|orization)?)(?:(?:\s|%20)*(?:=|%3D)[^&]+|(?:"|%22)(?:\s|%20)*(?::|%3A)(?:\s|%20)*(?:"|%22)(?:%2[^2]|%[^2]|[^"%])+(?:"|%22))|(?:bearer(?:\s|%20)+[a-z0-9._\-]+|token(?::|%3A)[a-z0-9]{13}|gh[opsu]_[0-9a-zA-Z]{36}|ey[I-L](?:[\w=-]|%3D)+\.ey[I-L](?:[\w=-]|%3D)+(?:\.(?:[\w.+/=-]|%3D|%2F|%2B)+)?|-{5}BEGIN(?:[a-z\s]|%20)+PRIVATE(?:\s|%20)KEY-{5}[^\-]+-{5}END(?:[a-z\s]|%20)+PRIVATE(?:\s|%20)KEY(?:-{5})?(?:\n|%0A)?|(?:ssh-(?:rsa|dss)|ecdsa-[a-z0-9]+-[a-z0-9]+)(?:\s|%20|%09)+(?:[a-z0-9/.+]|%2F|%5C|%2B){100,}(?:=|%3D)*(?:(?:\s|%20|%09)+[a-z0-9._-]+)?)
```
<br>
````

**Supported Values**: A regex string <br>
**Description**: Applies a regex to redact sensitive data from query strings on incoming HTTP requests. Matches are replaced with `<redacted>`. If an empty string is passed, no obfuscation occurs. The resulting value is reported in the `http.url` tag. 

### Diagnostics

`DD_TRACE_LOG_DIRECTORY`
: **Default**: Varies by SDK, environment, and runtime <br>
**Supported Values**: A valid directory path that exists on the system <br>
**Not Supported In**: Node.js, Ruby, Python SDKs<br>

> **Description**: Specifies the directory where tracer log files should be routed. If the directory does not exist, the SDK logs a warning and behaves as if the environment variable was not set.

Reviewer 4: Two comments on this:
1. I don't think we should include `the SDK logs a warning and behaves as if the environment variable was not set.` This sounds a little too "technical" and not user-friendly. I think we could instead say that the SDK will fallback to its default method of diagnostic logging, or something to that effect.
2. In the Default line above, perhaps we can link to our troubleshooting docs: [/tracing/troubleshooting/tracer_debug_logs#manual-debug-log-collection](https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/ayan.khan/doc-consistent-config/tracing/troubleshooting/tracer_debug_logs#manual-debug-log-collection)

**Supported Values**: A string representing a host name <br>
**Description**: The URL for connecting the tracer to the Datadog agent. Valid URL schemas include `http://` and `unix://` (Unix Domain Sockets). This value takes precedence over `DD_AGENT_HOST` and `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT` if set.

### Unified Service Tagging

`DD_VERSION`
: **Default**: `null` <br>
**Supported Values**: A string representing an application version <br>
**Description**: Adds a version tag to all spans that have the same service name as the global service name (aka `DD_SERVICE`). Spans with a different service name do not get this tag.

`DD_SERVICE`
: **Default**: `null` <br>
**Supported Values**: A string representing an application service name <br>
**Description**: Sets the default service name used for most spans. In some cases, tracers may set a different service name for downstream services.

`DD_ENV`
: **Default**: `null` <br>
**Supported Values**: A string representing an application environment name (e.g., `prod`, `dev`) <br>
**Description**: Adds an environment tag to all spans generated by the tracer instance.

### Integrations

`DD_TRACE_HTTP_CLIENT_ERROR_STATUSES`
: **Default**: `400-499` <br>

> **Supported Values**: A comma-separated string of the form `from-to`, where `from` and `to` are inclusive integers. Singular values are also accepted (e.g., `400-403,405,410-499`). <br>

Reviewer 4: What if we move the word "inclusive" from this line and use in the description line so it reads "Defines the inclusive range of status codes..."

This feedback also applies to the similar SERVER configuration

**Not Supported In**: Node.js SDK<br>

> **Description**: Defines the range of status codes to be considered as errors on `http.client` span kinds. Only the values within the specified range are considered errors.

Reviewer 4: What do you think of the following suggestion? Since we don't use the same name of `http.client` everywhere, I think we should avoid using the code markdown so we don't create confusion. This feedback also applies to the server statuses configuration.
```suggestion
**Description**: Defines the range of status codes to be considered as errors on automatically collected HTTP client spans. Only the values within the specified range are considered errors.
```

`DD_TRACE_HTTP_SERVER_ERROR_STATUSES`
: **Default**: `500-599` <br>
**Supported Values**: A comma-separated string of the form `from-to`, where `from` and `to` are inclusive integers. Singular values are also accepted (e.g., `400-403,405,410-499`). <br>
**Not Supported In**: Node.js SDK<br>
**Description**: Defines the range of status codes to be considered errors on `http.server` span kinds. Only the values within the specified range are considered errors.

`DD_TRACE_HTTP_CLIENT_TAG_QUERY_STRING`
: **Default**: `true` <br>
**Supported Values**: Boolean <br>
**Not Supported In**: Node.js SDK<br>

> **Description**: When set to false, the query string segment of the URL is removed from the `http.url` span tag on `http.client` spans. When true (default), the query string is included in the URL.

Reviewer 4: I have an idea for a rewording, what do you think?

```suggestion
**Description**: Enables or disables the inclusion of the query string in the `http.url` span tag value for automatically collected HTTP spans.
```

type: multi-code-lang
---

> This page describes configuration options that are supported across all SDKs. To view these common configuration options, see [Common configuration options](#common-configuration-options).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This page describes configuration options that are supported across all languages. To view these common configuration options, see [Common configuration options](#common-configuration-options).
```

Reviewer 5: Calling them languages on this page is more clear imo

> For configuration options specific to your programming language, choose your SDK from the options below:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For configuration options specific to your programming language, choose your language from the options below:
```

{{< partial name="apm/apm-compatibility.html" >}}

<br>

To instrument an application written in a language that does not yet have official library support, see the list of [community tracing libraries][1].

## Common configuration options

> The following configuration options behave consistently across multiple Datadog SDKs:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The following configuration options behave consistently across all Datadog SDKs, unless otherwise noted:
```

### Traces

`DD_TRACE_<INTEGRATION>_ENABLED`

> : **Default**: `true` <br>

Reviewer 5: I'm not sure this is fully accurate - Java has some experimental integrations disabled by default. We may want to make this clear in the description below

Reviewer 6: Maybe a good opportunity to use that `Caveat` option? - Caveat: In Java, integrations labeled as "beta" or marked as "Disabled" in this [document](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/trace_collection/compatibility/java/?tab=graalvm#integrations) are disabled by default.

**Supported Input**: Boolean <br>

> **Not Supported In**: Go SDK<br>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Not Supported In**: Go<br>
```

> **Caveats**: Not supported in Go & in Java integrations labeled as "beta" or marked as "Disabled" in this document are disabled by default.<br>

Reviewer 5: This is a bit hard to read as-is. Consider having it as a bulleted list instead
```suggestion
**Caveats**:<br>
- Not supported in Go
- [Some Java integrations are disabled by default][2].
```

Where [2] links to https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/trace_collection/compatibility/java/#framework-integrations-disabled-by-default

**Description**: Enables or disables instrumentation for the specified `<INTEGRATION>`. The integration name must be in uppercase (for example, `DD_TRACE_KAFKA_ENABLED=true`)

`DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT`
: **Default**: `100` <br>
**Supported Input**: A positive integer<br>
**Description**: Sets the maximum number of traces to sample per second; applies only when either `DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES` or `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` is set.

> `DD_TRACE_HEADER_TAGS`

Reviewer 5: Can we provide examples here? From reading, the exact value I'd want to set here is unclear

Reviewer 6: @bm1549 are the examples under Supported Input and Description below not clear enough?

If not, what kind of examples are you looking for?

Reviewer 5: The example is great. Thanks for adding!

: **Default**: `null` <br>
**Supported Input**: A comma-separated string representing a list of case-insensitive HTTP headers, with an optional mapping to a custom tag name. Example: `User-Agent:my-user-agent,Content-Type`. <br>
**Description**: Automatically apply specified HTTP headers as span tags. If a custom tag name is not specified, the tag key defaults to `http.request.headers.<normalized-header-name>` for request headers and `http.response.headers.<normalized-header-name>` for response headers.

`DD_TRACE_ENABLED`
: **Default**: `true` <br>
**Supported Input**: Boolean <br>

> **Description**: Enables or disables the sending of traces to the trace agent.

Reviewer 5: Customers don't really know about the pipeline in terms of tracer -> trace agent -> DD backend. We should simplify the terminology here

```suggestion
**Description**: Enables or disables sending traces from the application.
```

`DD_TRACE_OBFUSCATION_QUERY_STRING_REGEXP`
: **Default**: <br>
    ```
    (?i)(?:(?:"|%22)?)(?:(?:old[-_]?|new[-_]?)?p(?:ass)?w(?:or)?d(?:1|2)?|pass(?:[-_]?phrase)?|secret|(?:api[-_]?|private[-_]?|public[-_]?|access[-_]?|secret[-_]?|app(?:lication)?[-_]?)key(?:[-_]?id)?|token|consumer[-_]?(?:id|key|secret)|sign(?:ed|ature)?|auth(?:entication|orization)?)(?:(?:\s|%20)*(?:=|%3D)[^&]+|(?:"|%22)(?:\s|%20)*(?::|%3A)(?:\s|%20)*(?:"|%22)(?:%2[^2]|%[^2]|[^"%])+(?:"|%22))|(?:bearer(?:\s|%20)+[a-z0-9._\-]+|token(?::|%3A)[a-z0-9]{13}|gh[opsu]_[0-9a-zA-Z]{36}|ey[I-L](?:[\w=-]|%3D)+\.ey[I-L](?:[\w=-]|%3D)+(?:\.(?:[\w.+/=-]|%3D|%2F|%2B)+)?|-{5}BEGIN(?:[a-z\s]|%20)+PRIVATE(?:\s|%20)KEY-{5}[^\-]+-{5}END(?:[a-z\s]|%20)+PRIVATE(?:\s|%20)KEY(?:-{5})?(?:\n|%0A)?|(?:ssh-(?:rsa|dss)|ecdsa-[a-z0-9]+-[a-z0-9]+)(?:\s|%20|%09)+(?:[a-z0-9/.+]|%2F|%5C|%2B){100,}(?:=|%3D)*(?:(?:\s|%20|%09)+[a-z0-9._-]+)?)
    ```
: **Supported Input**: A regex string <br>

> : **Description**: Applies a regex to redact sensitive data from query strings on incoming HTTP requests. Matches are replaced with `<redacted>`. If an empty string is passed, no obfuscation occurs. The resulting value is reported in the `http.url` tag.

Reviewer 5: This regex is quite large - can we include the plaintext "what" into our description?
```suggestion
: **Description**: Applies a regex to redact sensitive data from query strings on incoming HTTP requests. The default regex matches various sensitive data patterns, including passwords, tokens, API keys, private keys, and authorization terms. Matches are replaced with `<redacted>`. If an empty string is passed, no obfuscation occurs. The resulting value is reported in the `http.url` tag.
```

### Diagnostics

`DD_TRACE_LOG_DIRECTORY`

> : **Default**: Varies by SDK, environment, and runtime. [Read more here][2] <br>

Reviewer 5: The link here doesn't really describe the differences in defaults on first read. Should we update that page as well?

> **Supported Input**: A valid directory path that exists on the system<br>

Reviewer 5: Do we accept both full and partial paths?

> **Not Supported In**: Java, Node.js, Ruby, Python SDKs<br>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Not Supported In**: Java, Node.js, Ruby, Python<br>
```

**Description**: Specifies the directory where tracer log files should be routed. If the directory does not exist, the SDK falls back to its default diagnostic logging method.

### Agent

`DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL`
: **Default**: `http://localhost:8126` <br>
**Supported Input**: A string representing an HTTP or UDS url <br>
**Description**: The URL for connecting the tracer to the Datadog agent. Valid URL schemas include `http://` and `unix://` (UNIX Domain Sockets). This value takes precedence over `DD_AGENT_HOST` and `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT` if set.

### Unified Service Tagging

`DD_VERSION`

> : **Default**: `null`, with an exception for the Node.js SDK, which can automatically retrieve the version number from package.json, if available<br>

Reviewer 5: To more generally describe difference in behavior, what do you think about changing `Not Supported In` to instead be `Caveats` or another similar term? For the above, we can put

```
Caveats: Not supported in Go
```

for this, we can put

```
Caveats: Node.js automatically retrieves the version number from package.json, if available
```

**Supported Input**: A string representing an application version <br>

> **Description**: Adds a version tag to all spans that have the same service name as the global service name (aka `DD_SERVICE`). Spans with a different service name do not get this tag.

Reviewer 5: This may be confusing to customers as they ask "why would it be different?". We can explain that by linking to the [inferred services](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/services/inferred_services/?tab=agentv7551) page

```suggestion
**Description**: Adds a version tag to all spans except for spans coming from inferred services.
```

> : **Default**: `null`, with an exception for the Node.js SDK, which can automatically retrieve the version number from package.json, if available<br>
> **Supported Input**: A string representing an application version <br>
> **Description**: Adds a version tag to all spans except for spans coming from inferred services.

Reviewer 5: Prefer to keep caveats as caveats

```suggestion
: **Default**: `null`<br>
**Supported Input**: A string representing an application version<br>
**Caveats**:<br/>
- Node.js automatically sets the version number from package.json
- [Inferred services][3] will not set version tags
**Description**: Adds a `version` tag to all spans
```

Where [3] points to https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/services/inferred_services/

`DD_SERVICE`
: **Default**: `null` <br>
**Supported Input**: A string representing an application service name <br>

> **Description**: Sets the default service name used for most spans. In some cases, tracers may set a different service name for downstream services. Integration spans may use their own default names, which can differ from the value specified in `DD_SERVICE`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Description**: Sets the default service name used for most spans. Tracers may set a different service name for inferred services. Integration spans may use their own default names, which can differ from the value specified in `DD_SERVICE`
```

> **Description**: Sets the default service name used for most spans. In some cases, tracers may set a different service name for downstream services. Integration spans may use their own default names, which can differ from the value specified in `DD_SERVICE`

Reviewer 5: Can we also describe what the default behavior is here?

> : **Default**: `null`, the SDK will try to automatically determine a service name<br>

Reviewer 5: Is there any public docs we can link to that describe how we automatically determine service names? If not, this is a bit too hand wavy

As a follow-up PR, you could update the language-specific configuration pages using [this internal doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZjLblRCtH6UOAvg7QgqXYWX97QyC99HF8tl0fF3lGf0/edit) and just have this doc instruct the user to look at the language-specific pages

Author: I can create a ticket for this to do

`DD_ENV`
: **Default**: `null` <br>
**Supported Input**: A string representing an application environment name (for example, `prod`, `dev`) <br>
**Description**: Adds an environment tag to all spans generated by the tracer instance.

### Integrations

`DD_TRACE_HTTP_CLIENT_ERROR_STATUSES`
: **Default**: `400-499` <br>
**Supported Input**: A comma-separated string of the form `from-to`, where `from` and `to` are integers. Singular values are also accepted (for example, `400-403,405,410-499`). <br>

> **Not Supported In**: Node.js SDK<br>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Not Supported In**: Node.js<br>
```

> **Description**: Defines inclusive the range of status codes to be considered as errors on automatically collected HTTP client spans. Only the values within the specified range are considered errors.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Description**: Defines the inclusive range of status codes to be considered as errors on automatically collected HTTP client spans. Only the values within the specified range are considered errors.
```

`DD_TRACE_HTTP_SERVER_ERROR_STATUSES`
: **Default**: `500-599` <br>
**Supported Input**: A comma-separated string of the form `from-to`, where `from` and `to` are integers. Singular values are also accepted (for example, `400-403,405,410-499`). <br>

> **Not Supported In**: Node.js SDK<br>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Not Supported In**: Node.js<br>
```

**Description**: Defines the inclusive range of status codes to be considered errors on `http.server` span kinds. Only the values within the specified range are considered errors.

`DD_TRACE_HTTP_CLIENT_TAG_QUERY_STRING`
: **Default**: `true` <br>
**Supported Input**: Boolean <br>

> **Not Supported In**: Node.js SDK<br>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Not Supported In**: Node.js<br>
```

**Description**: Enables or disables the inclusion of the query string in the `http.url` span tag value for automatically collected HTTP spans.

`DD_TRACE_CLIENT_IP_HEADER`
: **Default**: `null` <br>
**Supported Input**: Any non-empty string <br>

> **Description**: Configures a custom header name from which to source the `http.client_ip` tag value. If this variable is set, all other IP-related headers are ignored. If an empty string or null value is passed, IP headers are queried in this order:

Reviewer 5: Let's provide an example for this config as well

**Description**: Configures a custom header name from which to source the `http.client_ip` tag value. If this variable is set, all other IP-related headers are ignored (for example, setting `DD_TRACE_CLIENT_IP_HEADER=custom-ip-header` and including the header `custom-ip-header: 5.6.7.9` in a request results in a span tagged with `"http.client_ip": "5.6.7.9"`). If an empty string or null value is passed, IP headers are queried in this order:
  - `x-forwarded-for`
  - `x-real-ip`
  - `true-client-ip`
  - `x-client-ip`
  - `x-forwarded`
  - `forwarded-for`
  - `x-cluster-client-ip`
  - `fastly-client-ip`
  - `cf-connecting-ip`
  - `cf-connecting-ipv6`

> [1]: /developers/community/libraries/#apm-tracing-client-libraries

Reviewer 5: See above suggestion

```suggestion
[1]: /developers/community/libraries/#apm-tracing-client-libraries
[2]: /tracing/trace_collection/compatibility/java/#framework-integrations-disabled-by-default
[3]: /tracing/services/inferred_services/
```

**Supported Input**: Boolean <br>
**Not Supported In**: Go SDK<br>
**Description**: Enables or disables instrumentation for the specified `<INTEGRATION>`. The integration name must be in uppercase (for example, `DD_TRACE_KAFKA_ENABLED=true`)

`DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT`
: **Default**: `100` <br>
**Supported Input**: A positive integer
**Description**: Sets the maximum number of traces to sample per second; applies only when either `DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES` or `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` is set.

`DD_TRACE_HEADER_TAGS`
: **Default**: `null` <br>
**Supported Input**: A comma-separated string representing a list of case-insensitive HTTP headers, with an optional mapping to a custom tag name. Example: `User-Agent:my-user-agent,Content-Type`. <br>
**Description**: Automatically apply specified HTTP headers as span tags. If a custom tag name is not specified, the tag key defaults to `http.request.headers.<normalized-header-name>` for request headers and `http.response.headers.<normalized-header-name>` for response headers.

`DD_TRACE_ENABLED`
: **Default**: `true` <br>
**Supported Input**: Boolean <br>
**Description**: Enables or disables the sending of traces to the trace agent.

> `DD_TRACE_OBFUSCATION_QUERY_STRING_REGEXP`
> : **Default**:
> ```
> (?i)(?:(?:"|%22)?)(?:(?:old[-_]?|new[-_]?)?p(?:ass)?w(?:or)?d(?:1|2)?|pass(?:[-_]?phrase)?|secret|(?:api[-_]?|private[-_]?|public[-_]?|access[-_]?|secret[-_]?|app(?:lication)?[-_]?)key(?:[-_]?id)?|token|consumer[-_]?(?:id|key|secret)|sign(?:ed|ature)?|auth(?:entication|orization)?)(?:(?:\s|%20)*(?:=|%3D)[^&]+|(?:"|%22)(?:\s|%20)*(?::|%3A)(?:\s|%20)*(?:"|%22)(?:%2[^2]|%[^2]|[^"%])+(?:"|%22))|(?:bearer(?:\s|%20)+[a-z0-9._\-]+|token(?::|%3A)[a-z0-9]{13}|gh[opsu]_[0-9a-zA-Z]{36}|ey[I-L](?:[\w=-]|%3D)+\.ey[I-L](?:[\w=-]|%3D)+(?:\.(?:[\w.+/=-]|%3D|%2F|%2B)+)?|-{5}BEGIN(?:[a-z\s]|%20)+PRIVATE(?:\s|%20)KEY-{5}[^\-]+-{5}END(?:[a-z\s]|%20)+PRIVATE(?:\s|%20)KEY(?:-{5})?(?:\n|%0A)?|(?:ssh-(?:rsa|dss)|ecdsa-[a-z0-9]+-[a-z0-9]+)(?:\s|%20|%09)+(?:[a-z0-9/.+]|%2F|%5C|%2B){100,}(?:=|%3D)*(?:(?:\s|%20|%09)+[a-z0-9._-]+)?)
> ```
> <br>
> **Supported Input**: A regex string <br>
> **Description**: Applies a regex to redact sensitive data from query strings on incoming HTTP requests. Matches are replaced with `<redacted>`. If an empty string is passed, no obfuscation occurs. The resulting value is reported in the `http.url` tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DD_TRACE_OBFUSCATION_QUERY_STRING_REGEXP`
: **Default**: <br>
    ```
    (?i)(?:(?:"|%22)?)(?:(?:old[-_]?|new[-_]?)?p(?:ass)?w(?:or)?d(?:1|2)?|pass(?:[-_]?phrase)?|secret|(?:api[-_]?|private[-_]?|public[-_]?|access[-_]?|secret[-_]?|app(?:lication)?[-_]?)key(?:[-_]?id)?|token|consumer[-_]?(?:id|key|secret)|sign(?:ed|ature)?|auth(?:entication|orization)?)(?:(?:\s|%20)*(?:=|%3D)[^&]+|(?:"|%22)(?:\s|%20)*(?::|%3A)(?:\s|%20)*(?:"|%22)(?:%2[^2]|%[^2]|[^"%])+(?:"|%22))|(?:bearer(?:\s|%20)+[a-z0-9._\-]+|token(?::|%3A)[a-z0-9]{13}|gh[opsu]_[0-9a-zA-Z]{36}|ey[I-L](?:[\w=-]|%3D)+\.ey[I-L](?:[\w=-]|%3D)+(?:\.(?:[\w.+/=-]|%3D|%2F|%2B)+)?|-{5}BEGIN(?:[a-z\s]|%20)+PRIVATE(?:\s|%20)KEY-{5}[^\-]+-{5}END(?:[a-z\s]|%20)+PRIVATE(?:\s|%20)KEY(?:-{5})?(?:\n|%0A)?|(?:ssh-(?:rsa|dss)|ecdsa-[a-z0-9]+-[a-z0-9]+)(?:\s|%20|%09)+(?:[a-z0-9/.+]|%2F|%5C|%2B){100,}(?:=|%3D)*(?:(?:\s|%20|%09)+[a-z0-9._-]+)?)
    ```
: **Supported Input**: A regex string <br>
: **Description**: Applies a regex to redact sensitive data from query strings on incoming HTTP requests. Matches are replaced with `<redacted>`. If an empty string is passed, no obfuscation occurs. The resulting value is reported in the `http.url` tag.
```
This isn't rendering correctly in the preview. This should fix it.

type: multi-code-lang
---

This page describes configuration options that behave consistently across all languages. To view these common configuration options, see [Common configuration options](#common-configuration-options).

For configuration options specific to your programming language, choose your language from the options below:

{{< partial name="apm/apm-compatibility.html" >}}

<br>

To instrument an application written in a language that does not yet have official library support, see the list of [community tracing libraries][1].

## Common configuration options
The following configuration options behave consistently across the latest versions of all Datadog SDKs, unless otherwise noted:

### Traces

`DD_TRACE_<INTEGRATION>_ENABLED`
: **Default**: `true` <br>
**Supported Input**: Boolean <br>
**Caveats**:<br>

> - Not supported in Go
> - [Some Java integrations are disabled by default][2].

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  - Not supported in Go
  - [Some Java integrations are disabled by default][2].
```

>   - [Some Java integrations are disabled by default][2].

Reviewer 5: Missing newline

```suggestion
  - [Some Java integrations are disabled by default][2].<br/>
```

### Diagnostics

`DD_TRACE_LOG_DIRECTORY`
: **Default**: Varies by SDK, environment, and runtime. Please read more in the specific configuration page above for your chosen language <br>
**Supported Input**: A valid full or relative directory path that exists on the system<br>
**Caveats**: Not supported in Java, Node.js, Ruby, Python<br>
**Description**: Specifies the directory where tracer log files should be routed. If the directory does not exist, the SDK falls back to its default diagnostic logging method.

### Agent

`DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL`
: **Default**: `http://localhost:8126` <br>
**Supported Input**: A string representing an HTTP or UDS url <br>
**Description**: The URL for connecting the tracer to the Datadog agent. Valid URL schemas include `http://` and `unix://` (UNIX Domain Sockets). This value takes precedence over `DD_AGENT_HOST` and `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT` if set.

### Unified Service Tagging

`DD_VERSION`
: **Default**: `null`<br>
**Supported Input**: A string representing an application version<br>
**Caveats**:<br/>

> - Node.js automatically sets the version number from package.json
> - [Inferred services][3] will not set version tags

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  - Node.js automatically sets the version number from package.json
  - [Inferred services][3] will not set version tags
```

>   - [Inferred services][3] will not set version tags

Reviewer 5: Missing newline + fix linter

```suggestion
  - [Inferred services][3] do not set version tags<br/>
```

**Description**: Adds a `version` tag to all spans

`DD_SERVICE`

> : **Default**: `null`, the SDK will try to automatically determine a service name<br>

Reviewer 5: Fix linter

```suggestion
: **Default**: `null`, the SDK tries to automatically determine a service name<br>
```

**Description**: Adds an environment tag to all spans generated by the tracer instance.

### Integrations

`DD_TRACE_HTTP_CLIENT_ERROR_STATUSES`
: **Default**: `400-499` <br>
**Supported Input**: A comma-separated string of the form `from-to`, where `from` and `to` are integers. Singular values are also accepted (for example, `400-403,405,410-499`). <br>
**Caveats**: Not supported in Node.js<br>
**Description**: Defines the inclusive range of status codes to be considered as errors on automatically collected HTTP client spans. Only the values within the specified range are considered errors.

`DD_TRACE_HTTP_SERVER_ERROR_STATUSES`
: **Default**: `500-599` <br>
**Supported Input**: A comma-separated string of the form `from-to`, where `from` and `to` are integers. Singular values are also accepted (for example, `400-403,405,410-499`). <br>
**Caveats**: Not supported in Node.js<br>
**Description**: Defines the inclusive range of status codes to be considered errors on `http.server` span kinds. Only the values within the specified range are considered errors.

`DD_TRACE_HTTP_CLIENT_TAG_QUERY_STRING`
: **Default**: `true` <br>
**Supported Input**: Boolean <br>

> **Caveats**: Not supported in Node.js<br>

Reviewer 6: We're disabling this by default in Go (but can be enabled with DD_TRACE_HTTP_CLIENT_TAG_QUERY_STRING=true)
